CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to CodeSandbox Client

## Table of Contents

- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [Code Organization](#code-organization)
- [Setting Up the project locally](#setting-up-the-project-locally)
- [Submitting a Pull Request](#submitting-a-pull-request)
- [Add yourself as a contributor](#add-yourself-as-a-contributor)

## Code of Conduct

We have a code of conduct you can find [here](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and every
contributor is expected to obey the rules therein. Any issues or PRs that don't
abide by the code of conduct may be closed.

## Code Organization

The CodeSandbox client is currently divided in to 5 parts. We use `lerna` to
share dependencies between these parts.

- `app`: The editor, the search, profile page, the embed and the sandbox.
- `common`: All common parts between these packages, reusable JS.
- `codesandbox-api`: The npm package that's responsible for communication
  between the sandbox and the editor.
- `codesandbox-browserfs`: An in-browser file system that emulates the Node JS
  file system API and supports storing and retrieving files from various
  backends. Forked from
  [https://github.com/jvilk/BrowserFS](https://github.com/jvilk/BrowserFS), with
  an additional
  [CodeSandbox backend](https://github.com/codesandbox/codesandbox-client/blob/master/standalone-packages/codesandbox-browserfs/src/backend/CodeSandboxFS.ts).

This version of CodeSandbox is using the production server as source of truth,
this is specified by the environment variable `LOCAL_SERVER`. If you're working
on a feature that needs you to be logged in, you can login on
[https://codesandbox.io/](https://codesandbox.io/) and copy the contents of the
`jwt` local storage key over to your development environment on
[http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/). **Be very careful with how you
handle the token**, as anyone who knows it can login as you and have read/write
access to all your CodeSandbox content!

**Working on your first Pull Request?** You can learn how from this _free_
series
[How to Contribute to an Open Source Project on GitHub](https://egghead.io/series/how-to-contribute-to-an-open-source-project-on-github)

## Setting Up the project locally

To install the project you need to have `yarn` and `node`

1.  [Fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) the project, clone
    your fork:

    ```sh
    # Clone your fork
    git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/codesandbox-client.git

    # Navigate to the newly cloned directory
    cd codesandbox-client
    ```

2.  Your environment needs to be running Node v. 10
    - `.nvmrc` config exists in the repo root, specifying a v.10.x.x version
    - you can use [fnm](https://github.com/Schniz/fnm) (`fnm use`) to change
      your current node version to the one specified in `.nvmrc`
3.  from the root of the project: `yarn` to install all dependencies
    - make sure you have latest `yarn` version
4.  from the root of the project: `yarn start`
    - this builds the dependencies (`codesandbox-api` and
      `codesandbox-browserfs`) and runs the `app` development environment,
      available on [http://localhost:3000/s/new](http://localhost:3000/s/new)
    - on subsequent runs you can also bypass dependencies building and use
      `yarn start:fast`

> Tip: Keep your `master` branch pointing at the original repository and make
> pull requests from branches on your fork. To do this, run:
>
> ```sh
> git remote add upstream https://github.com/codesandbox/codesandbox-client.git
> git fetch upstream
> git branch --set-upstream-to=upstream/master master
> ```
>
> This will add the original repository as a "remote" called "upstream," then
> fetch the git information from that remote, then set your local `master`
> branch to use the upstream master branch whenever you run `git pull`. Then you
> can make all of your pull request branches based on this `master` branch.
> Whenever you want to update your version of `master`, do a regular `git pull`.

5. If you want to debug the state of the app, use `npx overmind-devtools` and make sure that the app is running. Learn more [here](https://overmindjs.org/core/devtools).

## Submitting a Pull Request

Please go through existing issues and pull requests to check if somebody else is
already working on it, we use `someone working on it` label to mark such issues.

Also, make sure to run the tests and lint the code before you commit your
changes.

```sh
yarn test
yarn lint
```

Before running `yarn lint`, you must have build our `common` and `notifications`
packages.

```sh
yarn build:deps
```

## Add yourself as a contributor

This project follows the
[all-contributors](https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors)
specification. Contributions of any kind welcome!

To add yourself to the table of contributors on the `README.md`, please use the
automated script as part of your PR:

```sh
yarn contributors:add
```

Follow the prompt and commit `.all-contributorsrc` and `README.md` in the PR.

Thank you for taking the time to contribute! 👍

Commit message:

chore: move default branch to main

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to CodeSandbox Client

## Table of Contents

- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [Code Organization](#code-organization)
- [Setting Up the project locally](#setting-up-the-project-locally)
- [Submitting a Pull Request](#submitting-a-pull-request)
- [Add yourself as a contributor](#add-yourself-as-a-contributor)

## Code of Conduct

We have a code of conduct you can find [here](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and every
contributor is expected to obey the rules therein. Any issues or PRs that don't
abide by the code of conduct may be closed.

## Code Organization

The CodeSandbox client is currently divided in to 5 parts. We use `lerna` to
share dependencies between these parts.

- `app`: The editor, the search, profile page, the embed and the sandbox.
- `common`: All common parts between these packages, reusable JS.
- `codesandbox-api`: The npm package that's responsible for communication
  between the sandbox and the editor.
- `codesandbox-browserfs`: An in-browser file system that emulates the Node JS
  file system API and supports storing and retrieving files from various
  backends. Forked from
  [https://github.com/jvilk/BrowserFS](https://github.com/jvilk/BrowserFS), with
  an additional
  [CodeSandbox backend](https://github.com/codesandbox/codesandbox-client/blob/main/standalone-packages/codesandbox-browserfs/src/backend/CodeSandboxFS.ts).

This version of CodeSandbox is using the production server as source of truth,
this is specified by the environment variable `LOCAL_SERVER`. If you're working
on a feature that needs you to be logged in, you can login on
[https://codesandbox.io/](https://codesandbox.io/) and copy the contents of the
`jwt` local storage key over to your development environment on
[http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/). **Be very careful with how you
handle the token**, as anyone who knows it can login as you and have read/write
access to all your CodeSandbox content!

**Working on your first Pull Request?** You can learn how from this _free_
series
[How to Contribute to an Open Source Project on GitHub](https://egghead.io/series/how-to-contribute-to-an-open-source-project-on-github)

## Setting Up the project locally

To install the project you need to have `yarn` and `node`

1.  [Fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) the project, clone
    your fork:

    ```sh
    # Clone your fork
    git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/codesandbox-client.git

    # Navigate to the newly cloned directory
    cd codesandbox-client
    ```

2.  Your environment needs to be running Node v. 10
    - `.nvmrc` config exists in the repo root, specifying a v.10.x.x version
    - you can use [fnm](https://github.com/Schniz/fnm) (`fnm use`) to change
      your current node version to the one specified in `.nvmrc`
3.  from the root of the project: `yarn` to install all dependencies
    - make sure you have latest `yarn` version
4.  from the root of the project: `yarn start`
    - this builds the dependencies (`codesandbox-api` and
      `codesandbox-browserfs`) and runs the `app` development environment,
      available on [http://localhost:3000/s/new](http://localhost:3000/s/new)
    - on subsequent runs you can also bypass dependencies building and use
      `yarn start:fast`

> Tip: Keep your `main` branch pointing at the original repository and make pull
> requests from branches on your fork. To do this, run:
>
> ```sh
> git remote add upstream https://github.com/codesandbox/codesandbox-client.git
> git fetch upstream
> git branch --set-upstream-to=upstream/main main
> ```
>
> This will add the original repository as a "remote" called "upstream," then
> fetch the git information from that remote, then set your local `main` branch
> to use the upstream main branch whenever you run `git pull`. Then you can make
> all of your pull request branches based on this `main` branch. Whenever you
> want to update your version of `main`, do a regular `git pull`.

5. If you want to debug the state of the app, use `npx overmind-devtools` and
   make sure that the app is running. Learn more
   [here](https://overmindjs.org/core/devtools).

## Submitting a Pull Request

Please go through existing issues and pull requests to check if somebody else is
already working on it, we use `someone working on it` label to mark such issues.

Also, make sure to run the tests and lint the code before you commit your
changes.

```sh
yarn test
yarn lint
```

Before running `yarn lint`, you must have build our `common` and `notifications`
packages.

```sh
yarn build:deps
```

## Add yourself as a contributor

This project follows the
[all-contributors](https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors)
specification. Contributions of any kind welcome!

To add yourself to the table of contributors on the `README.md`, please use the
automated script as part of your PR:

```sh
yarn contributors:add
```

Follow the prompt and commit `.all-contributorsrc` and `README.md` in the PR.

Thank you for taking the time to contribute! 👍
