---
title: Terms of Use
lastEdited: 2017-07-20
version: 0.8.0
---

#### Last Edited on 2017-07-20

These Terms and Conditions ("Terms", "Terms and Conditions") govern your
relationship with https://codesandbox.io website (the "Service") and the Sandbox
creation service therein operated by CodeSandbox BV ("us", "we", or "our").

Please read these Terms and Conditions carefully before using the Service.

Your access to and use of the Service is conditioned on your acceptance of and
compliance with these Terms. These Terms apply to all visitors, users and others
who access or use the Service. Any information submitted by you shall be subject
to CodeSandbox's Privacy Policy. One person or legal entity may not maintain
more than one Account. Accounts registered by “bots” or other automated methods
are not permitted.

By accessing or using the Service you agree to be bound by these Terms. If you
disagree with any part of the terms then you may not access the Service.

## Subscriptions

Some parts of the Service are billed on a subscription basis Subscription(s).
You will be billed in advance on a recurring and periodic basis ("Billing
Cycle"). Billing cycles are set on a monthly basis.

At the end of each Billing Cycle, your Subscription will automatically renew
under the exact same conditions unless you cancel it or CodeSandbox BV cancels
it. You may cancel your Subscription renewal either through your online account
management page or by contacting CodeSandbox BV customer support team.

A valid payment method, including credit card, is required to process the
payment for your Subscription. You shall provide CodeSandbox BV with accurate
and complete billing information including full name, zip code, and a valid
payment method information. By submitting such payment information, you
automatically authorize CodeSandbox BV to charge all Subscription fees incurred
through your account to any such payment instruments.

Should automatic billing fail to occur for any reason, CodeSandbox BV will issue
an electronic invoice indicating that you must proceed manually, within a
certain deadline date, with the full payment corresponding to the billing period
as indicated on the invoice.

## Fee Changes

CodeSandbox BV, in its sole discretion and at any time, may modify the
Subscription fees for the Subscriptions. Any Subscription fee change will become
effective at the end of the then-current Billing Cycle.

CodeSandbox BV will provide you with a reasonable prior notice of any change in
Subscription fees to give you an opportunity to terminate your Subscription
before such change becomes effective.

Your continued use of the Service after the Subscription fee change comes into
effect constitutes your agreement to pay the modified Subscription fee amount.

## Refunds

Certain refund requests for Subscriptions may be considered by CodeSandbox BV on
a case-by-case basis and granted in sole discretion of CodeSandbox BV.

## Content

Our Service allows you to post, link, store, share and otherwise make available
certain information, text, graphics, videos, or other material ("Content"). You
are responsible for the Content that you post to the Service, including its
legality, reliability, and appropriateness.

By posting Content to the Service, you grant us and other users of the Service
the right and the license to use, modify, publicly perform, publicly display,
reproduce, and distribute such Content on and through the Service. Such Content
shall be licensed upon the terms of the MIT licence. You retain any and all of
your rights to any Content you submit, post or display on or through the Service
and you are responsible for protecting those rights. You agree that this license
includes the right for us to make your Content available to other users of the
Service, who may also use your Content subject to these Terms. If you
specifically save a Sandbox as private to CodeSandbox, and that Sandbox has
never been public on CodeSandbox or anywhere else, the code in that particular
Sandbox is unlicensed.

You represent and warrant that: (i) the Content is yours (you own it) or you
have the right to use it and grant us the rights and license as provided in
these Terms, and (ii) the posting of your Content on or through the Service does
not violate the privacy rights, publicity rights, copyrights, contract rights or
any other rights of any person.

## Accounts

When you create an account with us, you must provide us information that is
accurate, complete, and current at all times. Failure to do so constitutes a
breach of the Terms, which may result in immediate termination of your account
on our Service.

You are responsible for safeguarding the password that you use to access the
Service and for any activities or actions under your password, whether your
password is with our Service or a third-party service.

You agree not to disclose your password to any third party. You must notify us
immediately upon becoming aware of any breach of security or unauthorized use of
your account.

## Links To Other Web Sites

Our Service may contain links to third-party web sites or services that are not
owned or controlled by CodeSandbox BV.

CodeSandbox BV has no control over, and assumes no responsibility for, the
content, privacy policies, or practices of any third party web sites or
services. You further acknowledge and agree that CodeSandbox BV shall not be
responsible or liable, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or
alleged to be caused by or in connection with use of or reliance on any such
content, goods or services available on or through any such web sites or
services.

We strongly advise you to read the terms and conditions and privacy policies of
any third-party web sites or services that you visit.

## Termination

We may terminate or suspend your account immediately, without prior notice or
liability, for any reason whatsoever, including without limitation if you breach
the Terms.

Upon termination, your right to use the Service will immediately cease. If you
wish to terminate your account, you may simply discontinue using the Service.

## Limitation Of Liability

In no event shall CodeSandbox BV, nor its directors, employees, partners,
agents, suppliers, or affiliates, be liable for any indirect, incidental,
special, consequential or punitive damages, including without limitation, loss
of profits, data, use, goodwill, or other intangible losses, resulting from (i)
your access to or use of or inability to access or use the Service; (ii) any
conduct or content of any third party on the Service; (iii) any content obtained
from the Service; and (iv) unauthorized access, use or alteration of your
transmissions or content, whether based on warranty, contract, tort (including
negligence) or any other legal theory, whether or not we have been informed of
the possibility of such damage, and even if a remedy set forth herein is found
to have failed of its essential purpose.

## Disclaimer

Your use of the Service is at your sole risk. The Service is provided on an "AS
IS" and "AS AVAILABLE" basis. The Service is provided without warranties of any
kind, whether express or implied, including, but not limited to, implied
warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose,
non-infringement or course of performance.

CodeSandbox BV its subsidiaries, affiliates, and its licensors do not warrant
that a) the Service will function uninterrupted, secure or available at any
particular time or location; b) any errors or defects will be corrected; c) the
Service is free of viruses or other harmful components; or d) the results of
using the Service will meet your requirements.

## Governing Law

These Terms shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of
Netherlands, without regard to its conflict of law provisions.

Our failure to enforce any right or provision of these Terms will not be
considered a waiver of those rights. If any provision of these Terms is held to
be invalid or unenforceable by a court, the remaining provisions of these Terms
will remain in effect. These Terms constitute the entire agreement between us
regarding our Service, and supersede and replace any prior agreements we might
have between us regarding the Service.

## Changes

We reserve the right, at our sole discretion, to modify or replace these Terms
at any time. If a revision is material we will try to provide at least 30 days
notice prior to any new terms taking effect. What constitutes a material change
will be determined at our sole discretion.

By continuing to access or use our Service after those revisions become
effective, you agree to be bound by the revised terms. If you do not agree to
the new terms, please stop using the Service.

## Contact Us

If you have any questions about these Terms, please contact us at
[support@codesandbox.io](mailto:support@codesandbox.io).
